1 . Excute command "pwd" , to retrive working directory location(path)
2 . Excute command "sudo apt-get update" , to get all the package updates to be installed.

     sudo -> command gives administrative access.
           In  Linux Operating System, there are  3 types of users'
		a. Regular User 
                b. Administrator (root)
                c. service , this user is exists only for Linux Server systems not for Desktop version

3. Execute command "ls" and "ls -l" to get list of directories and files in that location
       first command gives name of the files 
       (in linux OS, every entity (dirctory - folders, files, devices) is consider as files only)
       send command gives name of the files in column wise list

4. Execute command "sudo mkdir 'foldername' " to create a folder
          Exameple: ~$ sudo mkdir demofolder

     When ever a folder is created its comes with read permission by defaut. To change permission first change user of the file with following command
    
         sudo chown group:user directory name (folder name)
         Ex: sudo chown root:ebinezer demofolder
   
      Next change the permisssions with the following command

        sudo chmod 775 foldername

        Ex: sudo chmod 775 demofolder

          Permission values:
           
         0 - No Permissions
         1 - Execute
         2 - Write
         3 - Write+Execute
         4 - Read
         5 - Read + Write
         6 - Read + Execute
         7 - Read + Write + Execute


5. Excute command "sudo mkdir -p parent/child" to create parent and child directories

       Exampele : demofolder$ sudo -p images/personal-images
6. Excute command "sudo mkdir -p parent/{child1, child2...}" , to create multiple sub directories 

       Exameple: demofolder$ sudo -p images/{college, school}

7. Excute command "touch filename" , to create a file
       Example: touch myfile.txt


8. Excute command "vi filename" , to open file in vim command line editor.

      Example: vi myfile.txt

      To work with vi editor , one should know the commands
  
      a. vi - editor is a multi mode application, normal mode, insert mode
      b. The above command opens file in normal mode, where insert opertion won't work.
      c. To change to insert mode , press 'i'.
      d. Then it allows you to enter data. 
		Node: In insert mode, cursor can't be navigated. It only allows to enter data. 
      e. To Navigate cursor, change from insert mode to normal mode by pressing 'Esc' key.
      d. And kindly follow below commands to perform other operations.
         
            i. To navigate cursor.
			h - to move cursor to left direction
	                j - to move cursor to downword direction
                        k - to move cursor to upward direction
                        l - to move cursor to right direction
            ii. From above commands , we can move cursor by sigle character only. With below commands
                we can move cursor by multiple characters
 
                    nw - by n no of words in forward direction
                    ne - by n no of words in backword direction
                    ng - by n no of lines
                    gg - to home of the page.
                    shift+G - to end of the page.

             iii. Some more commands are below to manuplate text
                   
                     x - to delete character above cursor point
                     ndw - to delete n no of words
                     ndd - to delete n no of lines
                     yy - to copy current line.

                     d - to cut and 'p' to past 


             iv. Exist from vi editor.

                  a. press escape to movie from inser mode to normal mode.
                  b. press escape which results ':' at bottom of the file.
                  c. press ':w' to save and but file will be still in display (not to close file only 			to save) 
                  d. press ':wq' to save and close the editor.
                  c. press ':q' , just close file  with out saving changes.


9. Write 10 lines of text in above created file and do all copy , paste, delete operations.

10. Execute command "mv oldfilename newfilename" to rename file.
      
       Ex: sudo mv demofile.txt mydemofile.txt

11. Execute command "cp sourcefile destinationfile" to copy file.
      Ex: sudo cp mydemofile.txt duplicate.txt
  
     Note: to copy the file from one directory to another directory , need to provide full path of the 	  directory.


12. Execute command "rm filename" to delete file.
 
      Ex: sudo rm mydemofile.txt

13. Execute command "rm filename1 filename2 ...." to delete multiple files.

14. Execute command "rm *" to remove all files in that directory.

15. Execute command "rm -rvf *" to remove all files , directories from current directory.


16. Execute command "cat filename" to diplay file content on terminal.
     Ex: cat demofile.txt

17. Execute command "cat > filename" to write data into file from terminal.
     Ex: cat > demofile.txt
     This is my file content

    Note: To exit from write mode. press Crtl+d

     a. To check weather data is added or not, execute command "cat >         filename" 
        Ex: cat demofile.txt  

18. Above command overwrite data if any existed in the file, to append       to existing date, execute command "cat >> filename"
   
    Ex: cat >> demofile.txt
    This is second line.

     a. To check weather data is added or not, execute command "cat >        filename" 
        Ex: cat demofile.txt 
            

19. To search file in directory , execute command "find directory-path -name filename (filename-pattern)"

      Ex: find /ebinezer/ -name "demo.txt"
      Ex: find . -name "demo.txt"
      Ex: find . -iname "demo.txt" 
            The above command is to find file without case sensitivity.

      Ex: find . -iname "demo.*"
             The above command is to find file with name of any           extension.

      Ex: find . -name "*.txt"
            The above command is to find file of any name with 'txt'             extension.

20. To display file on terminal with readable content on screen, execute     command "cat filename | less"
    
    Ex: cat demo.txt | less

30. To search a content on file and display on terminal, Execute command 
    "cat filename|grep content"
     
     Ex: cat demo.txt | grep apple

31. To search for content which is not existing the provided word, execute command "cat filename| grep -v word"

     Ex: cat demo.txt | grep -v apple

32. To search for the content without case-senstivity, execute command 
    "cat filename|grep -i content"


     Ex: cat demo.txt|grep -i apple
       which displays "apple" without case-sensitivity.

33. To search for content along with line number, exectue command "cat     filename| grep -n content"

     Ex: cat demo.txt| grep -n apple

34. To display sorted content of the file on terminal, execute below     commands
 
          "cat filename|sort "
          "cat filename|sort -r"  - to display in descending sorted                                      order
          "cat filename|sort -n" - to sort numerically 




 35. Write a program to print non-prime odd numbers from 1 to 100 and debug the program
 
    compile : gcc filename.c -o outputfilename

          Ex: gcc non-prime.c -o non-prime

    Run: ./non-prime

    debug compilation:  gcc -g filename.c
    to launch debug mode: gdb a.out

        Now termial displays debug mode to enter break points

       command to enter break points

    	break linenumber
    	Ex: break 10

    Run:  to run enter "run" command

     to continue with execution, enter "c" or "continue" 

     to quit enter "ctrl+d"